# Creating modules for Dashboard

Dashboard modules can provide additional APIs and content integrated with Dashboard when it scans the `/src/www` to create the sitemap.  A module is a NodeJS application too.


## Setting up a module project

    $ mkdir my-module
    $ cd my-module
    $ npm install @userdashboard/dashboard
    # create main.js to start the server
    # create index.js optionally exporting your internal API
    # add your content or API endpoints or whatever your module is
    $ npm publish

## Folder structure

If you're adding to the APIs or the UIs these paths have special significance:

| Folder | Description |
|-------|--------------|
| `/src/www` | Web server root |
| `/src/www/public` | Static assets served quickly |
| `/src/www/account` | User account management pages |
| `/src/www/account/YOUR_MODULE/` | Your additions (if applicable) |
| `/src/www/administrator` | Administration pages |
| `/src/www/administrator/YOUR_MODULE/` | Your additions (if applicable) |
| `/src/www/api/user` | User account management pages |
| `/src/www/api/user/YOUR_MODULE/` | Your additions (if applicable) |
| `/src/www/api/administrator` | Administration APIs |
| `/src/www/api/administrator/YOUR_MODULE/` | Your additions (if applicable) |

## Adding HTML content

Dashboard renders page content on the server-side using a DOM-like-interface and JSON-representation of the HTML.  HTML files will be served as static HTML if they are not accompanied by a NodeJS handler.  

Content pages may export `before`, `get` and `post` methods for Dashboard's server.  NodeJS files can also determine if a page is wrapped in the template or requires authorization per `<html template="false" auth="false" />`.

    {
      auth: false, // allow guest access to this page
      template: false, // occupy the full screen
      before: (req),
      get: (req, res),
      post: (req, res)
    }

## Adding API endpoints
Endpoints export may export route configuration and methods for HTTP requests.  The API does not handle responses, it returns objects for use with NodeJS and converts those to JSON-responses if accessing via HTTP.  API routes can be exposed for guests. 
  
    {
      auth: false, // allow guest access to this endpoint
      before: (req),
      delete: (req),
      get: (req),
      patch: (req),
      post: (req),
      put: (req)
    }
